---
tags:
  - english
---
___
### What is the significance of remembrance day?
Remembrance day is for people all around the world to remember all the horrific wars that have occurred over time. This day can be significant to all people of all countries, from all backgrounds. And the significance of the poppies is that they represent


### Complete questions on the Bosnian War (connected to "The Cellist of Sarajevo").  
Conduct independent research on the Bosnian War to answer the following questions:  
  
- How did the Bosnian war start and how did it end?  

A lot of things happened over a long period of time to start the war, but many point it towards the *Sarajevo wedding shooting*, when a groom's father was killed on the second day of the Bosnian independence referendum, in 1992.
And it was ended by **the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina**

- What were some of the main issues surrounding the war? 



- What countries were involved? Explain why? What alliances or treaties came into play?  
- What were some of the major events in the war?  
- Why is it important to reflect on this war in particular? What can be learned from it?  
- What cultural or historical impacts did or can The Bosnian War have?  
- How accurate is The Cellist of Sarajevo in regards to the Bosnian War?  
- Did the cellist actually exist?
For each question in this answer:

### Write one paragraph summary explaining what the Jojo Rabbit film is about.
Jojo Rabbit (2019, Taika Waititi) is a film portraying the events of WWII through a Childs' eye, Jojo, 10 years old. Waititi decided to turn the story satirical, which further pushes how people within Germany during the Nazi times, especially children, saw the war as fun. And how the totalitarian government portrayed war to them. 

### Why did the director decide to make Hitler funny?
Imaginary Hitler was a funny character throughout the film, and it portrayed how a 10 year old sees Hitler, a funny, kind person, and again shows how the government controlled the media, and showed the war as fun and boy-like.

### How are actors cast?
Actors are cast not just by their talent, but how they are really in real life, and if it matches with their fictional character. 
"His personality bled into the character." - Waititi.

### Research task *Ann Frank*
##### Who is she?
Ann Frank was a Jewish girl who wrote events during WWII, while she hid from extermination. She was only 16 when she died, due to a disease in a detention camp after she was caught.

##### What text is referred to?
"*The diary of a young girl*". The diary of Ann Frank during her time in hiding, it was found after her death and published.

##### What is the significance of this intertextual reference?
The young Jewish girl in Jojo rabbit was similar to Ann Frank, and whilst where different stories, the two texts had similar characters during the same time, a Jewish girl hiding in a house. 



