---
tags:
  - english
mark: 78%
---
___

### The Great Gatsby and Park Avenue: A Comparative Analysis of Two Literary Works on the Widening Gap Between Socio-Economic Classes

Money and power are two topics that are deeply interconnected that impact the entire capitalist socio-economic structure. Money and power collectively determine the way a person lives, and the lack of both can cause a persons’ downfall. The two texts being examined are The Great Gatsby Written by F. Scott Fitzgerald and Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream directed by Alex Gibney. These two texts are set almost 100 years apart, yet they have many similarities. The two texts both focus on the gap between different socio-economic classes, and the struggle or impossibility of crossing it. Money and power are key elements that cause the gap between the different socio-economic classes, this is investigated and showcased respectively through The Great Gatsby and Park Avenue: Money, Power, and the American Dream. The two concepts will be compared and contrasted to provide a new perspective on the distance between the upper and lower class.

The Great Gatsby sheds light on the topics of money and power, and more specifically on the gap between socio-economic classes. In the text, Tom Buchanan takes Nick to see his mistress, who lives next to a morbid, run-down industrial district aptly named ‘The Valley of Ashes’.  This setting is described as; "A fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of men who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air." (Park Avenue, page 20) this quote, Fitzgerald emphasised, expanded upon, and visualised the setting, the Valley of Ashes. “Of men who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air”, this vivid description paints a picture in the audiences’ mind of the low class, slaves, paid in cents. With New York city set in the background, this description creates a physical contrast between the two classes. Furthermore, The Great Gatsby film uses cinematography which accentuates the gap, with intense colour saturation added to the scenes in New York, and the extreme opposite for the Valley, showing dimly coloured characters, groaning as they work to feed themselves. Both of these methods used to depict the Valley of Ashes show the grimness of the low socio-economic setting and contrast it against the upper class setting of New York City.  Whilst there is a big gap between lower class and the upper class, the main character, Jay Gatsby, overcame and bridged the gap. The Great Gatsby tempts the audience with the idea that the gap can be crossed, and that money and power are obtainable. Gatsby was born into the lower class, “His parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people-his imagination had never really accepted them as his parents at all. The truth was that Jay Gatsby of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic conception of himself.” (p.95) This quote uses High Modality and Emotive language to show that Gatsby was adamant to be better than his parents, and it expresses to the audience that he was born into the ditches of the lower class. Gatsby is always chasing a version of himself that he made up as a kid, pushing him to fight to escape the ditch.  When these ideas from The Great Gatsby are compared and contrasted to the documentary film “Park Avenue: Money, Power, and The American dream. “, it is obvious that both the texts focus on the socio-economic gap, and the difficulties or lack thereof to cross it. But first an analysis needs to be completed on the film to properly compare and contrast the gap between the socio-economic classes, and the distance that lies between.

Park Avenue: Money, Power, and The American dream is a documentary film that openly investigates and exposes the money lobbying that politics receive from billionaires, it highlights the depth of the gap between socio-economic classes. With this information the documentary film exposes the depth of the gap that lies between the upper and lower class, it demonstrates this by comparing and contrasting the setting of Park Avenue, where many of the lobbying billionaires live, and the South Bronx, a suburb that experiences some of the highest rates of homelessness and poverty. “There is another Park Avenue in South Bronx, home to America’s poorest congressional district. Of 700,000 people in this district, 40% live in poverty making less than $40 a day." (Park Avenue, 2012) This quote from the director uses proves to the author with hard evidence the depth of the gap between socio-economic classes. The film argues that the gap between the upper and lower class has become ever more enormous, and because of these lobbying billionaires, it has become more prominent in the 21st century. The two settings are separating by a river, the Harlem River, a physical gap between the two physical and financial sides. Gibney interviews several people from both locations, with different socio-economic statuses. The interviews solidify his statement and give personality to an abstract idea by showing actual people going through it.  “It’s like a whole different world over there. They have everything they need. We don’t have nothing over here” (Park Avenue, 2012), this excerpt from a woman from South Bronx was taken during a vox pop interview. “The chance of an infant dying is five times greater on the Bronx Park Avenue than on Manhattan’s Park Avenue just across the Harlem River.” (Park Avenue, 2012). These quotes create an emotional and visual understanding of the contrasting people and locations, Gibney uses the quotes to show the audience the ‘mote’ that lays between the two, whether that be money and power or just a river has an impact on real life. The documentary proves that not only has the gap between classes changed since Gatsby’s time, but it has also grown to an immense size, almost impossible for people to traverse. “The American dream is supposed to be about opportunity for everybody. But increasingly what we see is that it is becoming a hereditary aristocracy.” (Park Avenue, 2012). The high modality of this quote from Chrystia Freeland, an editor, unravels the fact that the world is becoming a hereditary aristocracy, which means that if you aren’t born into money, you cannot obtain it. Freeland uses the juxtaposition of the ideas ‘opportunity for everybody’ against ‘hereditary aristocracy’, which highlights the large gap between the ideal and reality. Now that Park Avenue is fully understood, the differences and similarities that it has with the Great Gatsby can you uncovered.

The Great Gatsby and Park Avenue are two literary texts that explore the capitalist world and the significant gap between socio-economic classes. The Great Gatsby uses New York City and The Valley of Ashes to show this. It reveals the significant gap that separates the various socio-economic classes, which have existed across both time periods. One with lavishing homes, cutting edge technology, and entitled people, and the other, home to slaves working tirelessly, rejected by the higher classes. Despite this discrepancy, Jay Gatsby managed to bridge the gap with determination, beginning in a shack, and ending in a mansion. Park Avenue, on the other hand, demonstrates the gap through interviews, statistics, and visually through scenes showing the physical river that separates Manhattan’s Park Avenue, and South Bronx’s Park Avenue. Over the two time periods, the possibility of crossing the gap between classes has grown immensely. Money and power are two concepts that determine a person’s well-being and ability to get through life in this capitalist world. Becoming rich is most people’s dream, but despite that, it is becoming increasingly impossible to go from a lower socio-economic class to a higher one, as demonstrated in Park Avenue. The analysis of The Great Gatsby and Park Avenue proves that the gap between socio-economic classes is widening and growing, not shrinking.

Sources:

Key, F.F.S. (1925) The Great Gatsby. New York: C. Scribner's sons, c1968.

Park Avenue: Money, power, and the American Dream--why poverty? (2012).